Update constrained decoding (#1477)
microsoft/onnxruntime-genai: examples/python/README.md

python model-generate.py -m {path to model folder} -e {execution provider} -pr {input prompt}
python model-qa.py -m {path to model folder} -e {execution provider}
```

## Use Constrained Decoding for the model output

Constrained Decoding is useful when using function/tool calling as it helps in ensuring the output is in the correct format.

We have integrated [LLGuidance](https://github.com/guidance-ai/llguidance) for constrained decoding. There are three types of constrained decoding enabled right now:
1. JSON Schema: Output will be JSON schema and it will be one of the function/tools provided.
2. Regex: If a particular regular expression is desired.

> 3. Lark Grammar (Recommended): This is when you want to have an option for a regular output as well as function/tool output.

Reviewer: Reorder so what is recommended is first.

> To ensure that the function/tool call works correctly with the Lark Grammar, you need to modify tokenizer.json file by setting special as true for <|tool_call|> token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that the function/tool call works correctly with the Lark Grammar, you need to modify your tokenizer.json file. For each model that has its own tool calling token, the tool calling token's `special` attribute needs to be set to true. For example, Phi-4 mini uses the <|tool_call|> token so you should set the `special` attribute for <|tool_call|> as `true` inside `tokenizer.json`.
```

> To ensure that the function/tool call works correctly with the Lark Grammar, you need to modify tokenizer.json file by setting special as true for <|tool_call|> token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that the function/tool call works correctly with constrained decoding, you need to modify your tokenizer.json file. For each model that has its own tool calling token, the tool calling token's `special` attribute needs to be set to true. For example, Phi-4 mini uses the <|tool_call|> token so you should set the `special` attribute for <|tool_call|> as `true` inside `tokenizer.json`.
```

> To run the python examples with function/tool call...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run the Python examples with function/tool calling:
```

```
# Using Lark Grammar with 1 function/tool call
python model-qa.py -m {path to model folder} -e {execution provider} --guidance_type "lark_grammar"  --guidance_info '[{"name": "get_weather", "description": "Get weather of a city.", "parameters": {"city": {"description": "The city for which weather information is requested", "type": "string", "default": "Dallas"}}}]'

> # With 2 function/tool call in chat mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# With 2 function/tool calls in chat mode
```

> python model-qa.py -m {path to model folder} -e {execution provider} --guidance_type "lark_grammar"  --guidance_info '[{"name": "get_weather", "description": "Get weather of a city.", "parameters": {"city": {"description": "The city for which weather information is requested", "type": "string", "default": "Dallas"}}}]'

Reviewer: Could you split the json on multiple lines so it is easier for reader to read/understand the json?

Reviewer 2: My dev branch helps simplify this by allowing the user to either provide the JSON data like this or provide a path to a JSON file where the data can be read from directly.

Author: Okay, will wait for Kunal's PR to address this.

> python model-chat.py -m {path to model folder} -e {execution provider} --guidance_type "lark_grammar"  --guidance_info '[{"name": "get_weather", "description": "Get weather of a city.", "parameters": {"city": {"description": "The city for which weather information is requested", "type": "string", "default": "Dallas"}}},{"name": "get_population", "description": "Get population of a city.", "parameters": {"city": {"description": "The city for which population information is requested", "type": "string", "default": "Dallas"}}}]'

Reviewer: Same for this.

Author: Same as above.
